#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Students must submit a Literature Review & Statement of Research Intent
 (Total 8 pages for the whole document):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Literature Review Part (5-6 pages), Statement of Research Intent Part (1-2
 pages) [single column, double-line spacing, excludes the front page, No
 appendices permitted, Reference IEEE format].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Literature Review
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Parking Models
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Pricing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Technologies to Implement Mobile Application
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Mobile Map Technology
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Usability of Mobile Applications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Existing Applications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Apply Nielsons Heuristics to 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Discussion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Statement of Research Intent
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Rental parking mobile application.
 Short term parking, ad hoc reserved for 30 mins.
 Can expand to subscription models for specific spaces.
 Map showing rental places near user.
 User can also input end location to find rental spaces near there.
 No navigation built in, but use google maps api.
 User inputs credit card/payment method on signup and we automatically charge
 from there.
 Time window for a parking spot, so owner can use when they want, need to
 tell parkers too.
 Address of parking spot and images.
 Can include number of spots per parking location.
 Quarter hourly rate for spots 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Start session using the app, and end session using app.
 No QR code needed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Pricing model: Per minute/10minute/15 minute charging, so if you only need
 for a short period you pay very little.
 Min charge of 15mins to discourage immediate fraudulent ending.
 Keep price fixed for now, can change in the future
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Enforcement: Peer to peer reporting.
 If you go to a parking location, and there is a car there, user can report.
 Owner can also report.
 Strike model, banned if exceeded, fines if caught
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
References
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
